---
layout: partials/shared/simple-md
---

Orbs’ ​Locking Mechanism​ (providing a 14-day cool-down period for unstaking) enhances the stability and security of the Orbs Network. In addition, the Orbs team developed TETRA​, a dedicated staking wallet, from which any ORBS holder can easily stake tokens with a Guardian of their choice. Both improvements were widely adopted by the Orbs community.

Moreover, Orbs PoS assists in reducing friction for Delegators by allowing for an easy transition of delegation between Guardians through the new staking contract. Delegators can now easily modify their stake between the various Guardians using the new Tetra Wallet, without the need to unstake first.

Token holders that delegate to an active Guardian are rewarded in proportion to their stake. Only delegation to an active Guardian that operates a validator node receives rewards. A Guardian that does not fulfill its responsibilities can harm the network and will cause its Delegators to lose their rewards. Therefore, it is imperative for Delegators to monitor their Guardians and make sure that they are fulfilling their responsibilities. The new features described above enable Delegators to efficiently stake to their chosen Guardian, or switch Guardians if necessary, thus helping them fulfill their important role in making the network safe and efficient.
Orbs’ rewards assignment and distribution architecture provides Orbs Delegators with an additional level of confidence and predictability for their rewards allocation. Under this architecture, staking rewards are distributed directly to the Orbs Delegators on a continuous basis. This continuous reward assignment allows both Guardians and Delegators to control the rate at which they claim their rewards. Under the new architecture, a Participant can claim their rewards by sending a claim transaction to the contract. This may be done using the Tetra staking interface. As the claim transaction has a gas cost, Delegators may initiate these transactions based on their need and the current gas price, which fluctuates heavily.

Following the Orbs PoS V3 release, Orbs Delegators have the ability to choose between staking on Ethereum and staking on Polygon, based on their own personal preferences and considerations.