---
layout: partials/shared/mappers/blog-mapper
image: /assets/img/blog/The-Story-of-Backing-and-Building-with-the-Best-Setting-THE-Standard-for-DeFi-Collaboration/orbs-x-thena-2.jpg
blogUrl: The-Story-of-Backing-and-Building-with-the-Best-Setting-THE-Standard-for-DeFi-Collaboration
date: 2024-11-28
title: 'The Story of Backing and Building with the Best: Setting THE Standard for DeFi Collaboration'
author:
  - /blog/common/authors/RanHammer.md
type:
short_description: 'The Story of Backing and Building with the Best: Setting THE Standard for DeFi Collaboration'
---

**March 2023: How It All Began \- A Chance Meeting in Paris**

I remember it clearly: Paris Blockchain Week, March 2023\. I was there, pushing Orbs as always, talking to people about what we were building, sharing ideas, and seeing how we could make new connections. One of those connections turned out to be something truly special. I met Theonysus, the Co-Founder and Head of Partnerships at THENA, for the first time. After our initial conversation, I was also introduced to Theseus, Founder and CEO of Thena, Apollo the marketing lead, and the rest of the team. What started as a conversation over Telegram quickly grew into something far more impactful for both of our teams. We were very impressed by the initial launch and liquidity bootstrap of THENA and how they managed to bring in all these high-quality players to participate right off the gate. We also felt that THENA was completely undervalued given their great product, positioning, and tokenomics.

We were both excited about the potential for collaboration, and THENA's vision for DeFi perfectly aligned with Orbs' mission to bring advanced trading technology to the ecosystem. There was a real enthusiasm about building something together—to not only grow each other’s platforms but to really make a difference in what DeFi could offer.

**June 2023: Integrating Orbs dTWAP and dLIMIT**

THENA took its first major step by integrating Orbs' dTWAP and dLIMIT technologies. It wasn't just about adding some tools; it was a commitment, a bet on the value that Orbs L3 technology could bring. This integration brought THENA’s users some of the most advanced trading features, such as efficient execution of large orders through TWAP and precision with limit orders, setting an industry standard for DEXs. It was our first big win together.

This initial collaboration marked the beginning of something extraordinary. From Seoul to Tokyo, from strategic investments to global showcases, our partnership kept evolving. We weren’t just a vendor-client duo; we became partners and friends, pushing boundaries for what was possible in DeFi.

**December 2023: Backing the Vision \- Orbs Strategic Investment**

In December 2023, our relationship with THENA took another big leap. We at Orbs saw the potential in THENA beyond the technology—we saw the people, the passion, and the commitment and we were surprised by how undervalued its token was. We decided to make a $600,000 strategic investment, essentially taking all available investor allocation and being the lead and only investor in the round. It wasn’t just financial support; it was about believing in THENA's vision to make ve(3,3) DEXs mainstream and scaling their impact. The news of our investment was well-received by the community—THENA’s token value surged, almost doubling, and that was just the beginning of what was to come.

But more than the market reaction, it was about the opportunity to bring THENA to the next level. 

**December 2023: Integrating Orbs Liquidity Hub \- Enhancing Trading Efficiency**

We worked on integrating our Liquidity Hub into THENA, improving execution prices, adding MEV protection, and introducing gasless transactions—the kind of features that make a real difference to users. The Liquidity Hub integration provided THENA with access to aggregated liquidity, optimizing pricing, and ensuring users had a seamless experience when executing trades. Liquidity Hub is also a revenue-generating product, which added to the already impressive revenue generated by THENA.

**March 2024: Engaging the Community in Seoul**

Our story wasn't just about technology; it was about the people using it. We made sure to engage THENA's community directly. In March 2024, we hosted a meetup in Seoul to bring our users closer, educate them, and share our combined roadmaps. It was also THENA’s first introduction to the Korean market—something we at Orbs were more than happy to help facilitate. It was thrilling to see the community's excitement, their interest in how our technology was reshaping user experiences.

**July 2024: Unveiling Orbs Perpetual Hubs \- Revolutionizing Perpetual Trading on THENA**

The integration of Orbs Perpetual Hubs brought perpetual trading to THENA, empowering users with the ability to trade with leverage while maintaining capital efficiency. This feature enabled THENA's community to participate in perpetual futures trading, expanding the platform’s capabilities significantly. The Perpetual Hubs’ decentralized architecture ensured transparency, security, and reliability—qualities that are critical for attracting experienced traders and maintaining user trust.

Orbs Perpetual Hub is designed to be the future of leverage trading in DeFi, delivering competitive advantages such as reduced collateral requirements and an intuitive user interface. By leveraging Orbs' advanced Layer 3 infrastructure, Perpetual Hub provides a seamless trading experience, setting THENA apart in the DeFi ecosystem.

This milestone highlighted the technical prowess of both THENA and Orbs, expanding THENA's market reach and offering its community cutting-edge financial instruments to compete in a rapidly evolving space.

**July & September 2024: Amplifying Visibility at Global Events**

With Orbs’ backing, THENA showcased its technology at high-profile industry events, including a side event during Edcon Tokyo and another at Token2049 in Singapore. These events were an opportunity to spotlight the robust technology powering THENA, from liquidity management to perpetual trading.

**November 26, 2024: Binance Airdrop Announcement \- Catalyzing User Interest**

The announcement of a Binance airdrop for THENA catalyzed a surge in user interest and market activity. The news brought THENA’s price above $1, validating the years of development and strategic planning. This pivotal moment underscored how THENA, backed by Orbs’ technology, had grown into a trusted and valuable DeFi platform.

**November 27, 2024: Hitting All-Time Highs \- Launching on Binance**

The following day, THENA launched on Binance, marking its debut on the world’s largest cryptocurrency exchanges. With the platform’s visibility and trading volume soaring, THENA’s price reached an all-time high of over $3. This achievement was a testament to the strength of THENA’s ecosystem. Now, obviously, a Binance listing isn't a goal by itself, and the project still has a long way to go, but it is nice to have everyone see the value we always saw in THENA and the team behind it.

**To 2025 and beyond**

Together, THENA and Orbs have set a new standard for collaboration in the blockchain industry—one built not just on technology and investment but on true partnership and a shared vision. We’ve become friends through this journey, and I believe that’s what has really made the difference.

One of the things that I think made a huge impact on THENA's success is the conviction and dedication of the team. It is very common for DeFi founders to lose focus, working on multiple projects in parallel, grant farming, and deploying on multiple chains. Here, Theseus and the team were laser-focused on the Binance ecosystem, giving up many other tempting opportunities to pursue their focused goal. We appreciate that dedication and are happy to see it rewarded. 

THENA is only getting started and has a lot of work ahead, but we believe it is on the right track to become one of the leading venues for on-chain trading and spearhead DeFi innovation. THENA’s upcoming V3,3 upgrade will elevate the DEX experience with innovative AMM models and powerful Plugins. These will enable advanced trading tools, automated yield strategies, and compliance solutions, setting a new standard for decentralized finance on BNB Chain. We are proud to have Orbs be a part of this journey and are excited for what’s to come. 

**Stay tuned—this story is not done yet.**

---

**About Orbs**

Orbs is a decentralized Layer-3 (L3) blockchain specifically designed for advanced on-chain trading.

Utilizing a Proof-of-Stake consensus, Orbs acts as a supplementary execution layer, facilitating complex logic and scripts beyond the native functionalities of smart contracts. Innovative protocols like dLIMIT, dTWAP, Liquidity Hub, and Perpetual Hub push the boundaries of DeFi and smart contract technology, introducing CeFi-level execution to on-chain trading.

The project's core team comprises over thirty dedicated contributors globally from Tel Aviv, London, New York, Tokyo, Lisbon, Limasso, and Seoul.

For more information, please visit www.orbs.com, or join our community at:  
Telegram: https://t.me/OrbsNetwork  
Twitter: https://x.com/orbs\_network